Source: r/ASU (real, collected)
Title: Getting around ASU without a car - light rail, Orbit buses, bikes and scooters
Type: Reddit thread
Topic: light rail, Orbit bus, buses, bikes, scooters, bike theft, reliability, safety

OP (moomingodpapa_):
ASU has free shuttles that come every 15-30 minutes and go between the different campuses. There is also the light rail that goes from Phoenix to Tempe/Mesa-ish. People usually get skateboards, bicycles, or scooters to get around if they don't have a car. There's also Waymo, Lyft, and Uber if you're trying to get somewhere far.

Longjumping-Pass2825:
The light rail line goes from Phoenix to Tempe (and a small distance into Mesa) and is decently reliable. However, there's only one line, so you'd need to make sure you're within walking distance of a station. In Tempe there are also two bus systems — one (Orbit) is free, but they fill up very quickly and are therefore not reliable if you need to be somewhere on time. The other buses are the same price as the light rail and are rarely full but often late. Google and Apple Maps show the routes of all three of these options on the public transport view.

From my experience, once you're on the bus or light rail it feels perfectly safe, although if you're the sort of person who can't handle proximity to your unhoused neighbours you might not share this opinion. Waiting at the stations can feel a bit more questionable, but this is mostly for some of the more remote bus stations. Light rail stations will often have transit police patrolling, and I would recommend it any day over the buses.

OP (moomingodpapa_):
I've taken the train before, but didn't know it has a stop next to WP Carey School. Thanks for reminding me! Do students commonly use bikes/scooters as a way of transportation, or is it not recommended?

Longjumping-Pass2825:
Yes, but they often get stolen. There are card-access bike lockers on Tempe campus at least, but I'm not sure about other locations.

OfficeChair70 (Software Engineering):
No lockers on Poly, but when a bike gets stolen out here it's the story of the week because it doesn't happen often. Tons of places to lock bikes.

Comprehensive-Peak63:
There is a service on campus that will watch your bike for you at no cost — https://cfo.asu.edu/bike-parking

[deleted]:
Yes, just make sure to not be rude when you ride them (i.e. don't ride on the pavements, use the bike lanes, give right of way to pedestrians).

Independent_Ad7922:
Pull up Google and search for the place you're going to 15-20 mins in advance — you'll have all your options under the second option beside car routes, which are light rail, Orbit buses, streetcar, and Valley Metro buses.

[deleted]:
Near campus? Doable, but sometimes frustrating. Cross campus? ASU has free shuttles that run through all the campuses, they also run pretty late so loads of time slots for you to choose from.
